Severity, exposure and controllability provide a systematic way for evaluating risk.
We take these three factors and combine them into
a metric called Automotive Safety Integrity Level or ASIL.
ASIL measures the amount of risk of each hazardous situation.
Lower risks are classified as ASIL A,
whereas the highest risks are classified as ASIL B. ISO 26262
provides a table for combining the three terms together into an ASIL.
Let's calculate the ASIL for our lane departure warning example.
You can see in the table that combining S3,
E3 and C3 leads to ASIL C. So
excessive steering wheel vibration is a hazard with relatively high risk.
This table brings up a couple of points that we haven't covered yet. What is QM?
And what happens if a hazard has a severity,
controllability or exposure levels of S0, E0 or C0?
If the risk assessment contains an S0,
E0 or C0, then the risk is automatically marked as QM.
QM stands for quality management and
implies that the risk is already below acceptable levels.
There is no need to apply ISO 26262 to
a hazardous situation of QM because risk is already low enough.
However, there are other standards that apply including
the automotive quality management standard IATF 16949.
Now that we know how to evaluate risks,
we will discuss what the system needs to do in order to lower the risk.